README.md, before:

# Tekton CLI Wrapper
An opinionated wrapper to deploy OCP clusters by using OpenShift Pipelines throught [tkn cli](https://github.com/tektoncd/cli).

---
### How to use it
The steps are simple:
1. First make sure that you are **authenticated** throught command line (by using `oc login` or getting the proper `kubeconfig` file) to the *bootstrap cluster*<sup>1</sup> to have access to the pipelines
2. Set the needed **variables** by exporting them or by placing them in front of the make command. Then, **run** your desired target.
For instance:
```
export OCP_VER=4.8
export NAME="my-ocp-cluster"
make deploy-ocp-regular-aws
```
...or...
```
OCP_VER=4.8 NAME="my-ocp-cluster" make deploy-ocp-regular-aws
```

<span style="font-size: .7rem"><sup>1</sup>(The *bootstrap cluster* is a OpenShift/Kubernetes cluster with the [plumbing-gitops](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/gitops/plumbing-gitops) manifests for pipelines already applied).</span>

---
### Targets
This table shows the different targets within the Makefile that you can call:
| **Target**                     | **Description**                                                          | **Requires** |
|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `make help`                    | Prints help.                                                             | OCP_VER      |
| `make deploy-ocp-regular-psi`  | Deploys a regular cluster in PSI (OpenStack infrastructure).             | OCP_VER      |
| `make deploy-ocp-regular-aws`  | Deploys a regular cluster in AWS (EC2 infrastructure).                   | OCP_VER      |
| `make deploy-ocp-proxy`        | Deploys a proxy cluster in AWS (EC2 infrastructure).                     | OCP_VER      |
| `make deploy-ocp-disconnected` | Deploys a disconnected (air-gapped) cluster in AWS (EC2 infrastructure). | OCP_VER      |
| `make destroy-cluster`         | Destroys an existent cluster.                                            | NAME         |

### Variables:
Below you will find the variables reference
| **Variable**      | **Description**                                                                                                                          |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| OCP_VER           | OpenShift Version. It accepts major and minor in format *X.Y* (i.e. `4.9`).                                                              |
| NAME              | Name for the OpenShift cluster. If not needed for the target, it will be auto-generated.                                                 |
| BOOTSTRAP_CLUSTER | Specifies the OCP cluster name where the plumbing-gitops tekton pipelines are installed. <br/> Default: *api-ocp-c1-prod-psi-redhat-com* |

---
### Issues
As far as PSI is very unstable, the target `make deploy-ocp-regular-psi` will fail very likely. This is an example of the output that you will find:
```
$ NAME="my-ocp46" OCP_VER="4.6" deploy-ocp-regular-psi
(...)
[provision-cluster : install-cluster] Creating secret with name cluster-my-ocp46
[provision-cluster : install-cluster] secret/cluster-my-ocp46 created
[provision-cluster : install-cluster] File has been uploaded to clusters/my-ocp46/installer-artifacts.zip 🚀File has been uploaded to clusters/my-ocp46/envvars 🚀

failed to get logs for task provision-cluster : container step-install-cluster has failed  : [{"key":"mirror-registry","value":"quay.io","type":"TaskRunResult"},{"key":"StartedAt","value":"2022-03-18T08:40:45.026Z","type":"InternalTektonResult"}]
```

In such case, you will need to destroy the cluster before retrying.
```
$ NAME="my-ocp46" make destroy-cluster
```

Commit message:

Update with correct OCP versions

README.md, after:

# Tekton CLI Wrapper
An opinionated wrapper to deploy OCP clusters by using OpenShift Pipelines throught [tkn cli](https://github.com/tektoncd/cli).

---
### 1. How to use it
The steps are simple:
1. First make sure that you are **authenticated** throught command line (by using `oc login` or getting the proper `kubeconfig` file) to the *bootstrap cluster*<sup>1</sup> to have access to the pipelines
2. Set the needed **variables** by exporting them or by placing them in front of the make command. Then, **run** your desired target.
For instance:
```bash
export OCP_VER="stable-4.8"
export NAME="my-ocp-cluster"
make deploy-ocp-regular-aws
```
...or...
```bash
OCP_VER="stable-4.8" NAME="my-ocp-cluster" make deploy-ocp-regular-aws
```

<span style="font-size: .7rem"><sup>1</sup>(The *bootstrap cluster* is a OpenShift/Kubernetes cluster with the [plumbing-gitops](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/gitops/plumbing-gitops) manifests for pipelines already applied).</span>

---
### 2. Targets
This table shows the different targets within the Makefile that you can call:
| **Target**                     | **Description**                                                          | **Requires** |
|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `make help`                    | Prints help.                                                             | OCP_VER      |
| `make deploy-ocp-regular-psi`  | Deploys a regular cluster in PSI (OpenStack infrastructure).             | OCP_VER      |
| `make deploy-ocp-regular-aws`  | Deploys a regular cluster in AWS (EC2 infrastructure).                   | OCP_VER      |
| `make deploy-ocp-proxy`        | Deploys a proxy cluster in AWS (EC2 infrastructure).                     | OCP_VER      |
| `make deploy-ocp-disconnected` | Deploys a disconnected (air-gapped) cluster in AWS (EC2 infrastructure). | OCP_VER      |
| `make destroy-cluster`         | Destroys an existent cluster.                                            | NAME         |

### 3. Variables:
Below you will find the variables reference
| **Variable**      | **Description**                                                                                                                          |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| OCP_VER           | OpenShift Version. Take a look into section [4. OCP Versions](4.-ocp-versions) to see accepted values.                                   |
| NAME              | Name for the OpenShift cluster. If not needed for the target, it will be auto-generated.                                                 |
| BOOTSTRAP_CLUSTER | Specifies the OCP cluster name where the plumbing-gitops tekton pipelines are installed. <br/> Default: *api-ocp-c1-prod-psi-redhat-com* |

### 4. OCP Versions:
You can choose one of the versions available on following links:
- [OpenShift v4 OCP](https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/x86_64/clients/ocp/)
- [Openshift v4 OCP Dev Preview](https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/x86_64/clients/ocp-dev-preview/)

**Examples:**
| **Value**  | **Description**                                                                       |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| stable     | Latest stable release                                                                 |
| stable-4.8 | Latest stable 4.8 release                                                             |
| fast-4.9   | Latest fast 4.9 release (supported, guaranteed to have an upgrade path in the future) |
| 4.10.5     | Specific stable release or release candidate                                          |

---
#### Issues
As far as PSI is very unstable, the target `make deploy-ocp-regular-psi` will fail very likely. This is an example of the output that you will find:
```
$ NAME="my-ocp46" OCP_VER="4.6" deploy-ocp-regular-psi
(...)
[provision-cluster : install-cluster] Creating secret with name cluster-my-ocp46
[provision-cluster : install-cluster] secret/cluster-my-ocp46 created
[provision-cluster : install-cluster] File has been uploaded to clusters/my-ocp46/installer-artifacts.zip 🚀File has been uploaded to clusters/my-ocp46/envvars 🚀

failed to get logs for task provision-cluster : container step-install-cluster has failed  : [{"key":"mirror-registry","value":"quay.io","type":"TaskRunResult"},{"key":"StartedAt","value":"2022-03-18T08:40:45.026Z","type":"InternalTektonResult"}]
```

In such case, you will need to destroy the cluster before retrying.
```
$ NAME="my-ocp46" make destroy-cluster
```
